MEAN AND MERN :

The two leading open JavaScript stacks namely  MEAN and MERN 
MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, Node.js) 
MERN (MongoDB, Express, React, Node.js)
stacks can be used to build web applications in the shortest span of time.
The advantage of such JavaScript stacks helps to build an integrated solution by using only JavaScript. 
Though MEAN stack is more established among developers, studies recently indicate that React is preferred more to Angular in front-end development resulting in the surge of MERN stack.

components:

MongoDB – Exceptionally large volume of data can be managed using Mongo DB which is NoSQL and the data is stored as JSON data documents. 
                   Unlike the structured databases it uses very little storage space for data.

Express – This is a server HTTP framework which provides simple interfaces for building request end points and managing cookies. 
                 It acts as the middleware to handle request and responses.

Angular – We can build highly reusable maintainable and testable client side application using Angular JS and is mainly used to develop single page applications. 
               With the help of MVC architecture it is easy to maintain the structure of the code and which makes testing easier with dependency injection.
               Google has then launched new versions of Angular with the latest version being Angular v4.0. Angular CLI is a command line interface tool which helps in setting up a development environment.

React – A declarative efficient and flexible front end JavaScript library for user interface development. 
             JSX is mainly used for front-end development. ReactJS can be used for both client and server side whereas other popular JS frameworks like Angular will only act from client side.
             You can read more about Interactive UI development using React here

Node JS – Node JS helps to develop more faster and scalable server side application which compiles JavaScript to machine language. 
                It is the best choice for real time and streaming applications
